When your hear the Hadith of the Prophet (PBUH)
“Act kindly towards women”
And the Prophet's hadith: "The best of you is the one who is best to his wife
and I am the best of you to my wives."
And the hadith:
“None but an honorable man honors them, and none but a low man insults them”
Also, his hadith “Be gentle with ladies”
All of these mean that you should not oppress a woman or insult her
Because your opponent on judgement day will be the prophet himself
Why do we say this ?
Because there are men who misuse their given rights in religion
Without any mercy or humaneness towards women
And use quotes and hadiths which are correct however apply them incorrectly
At all times they can say my rights in religion are so and so
And if you do so and so, you will be damned or discordant
All of this is wrong
They do not seem to understand that these quotes
and hadiths where mentioned in a context of disagreement
and not apply to all aspects of the marital relationship
Because the teachings of Islam guides you to treat your wife
with mercy, love and grace through all aspects of life
and not to misuse references that relate to rights or duties
unless there are disputes
To be affectionate and merciful is a way of life
and to apply rights and duties only at moments of disagreement
This is the correct and accurate perspective of Islam
Marriage bond in Islam blossoms from love and mercy,
not from dos and donts in situations of disputes
Do not take religious provisions about disputes in marriage and apply them to everydays life
Because in such situations, you will be mistreating your spouse
And corrupting the truth of the religion
This is the rightful way of Islam
One of the main objectives of Surat Anessa' is redeeming the position of women
As well as respect and appreciation towards them
#SuratAlNesaa
Honour women and God will be pleased with you
Right